Sharada braille writer is a text editor using a six key approach for producing print materials in different 
languages. It is written in python3 with gtk3 framework. It uses letters 
f, d, s, j, k, and l in the keyboard to represent 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the braille 
dots respectively. One can use different combinations of braille to produce text. For example key 'f'
will produce 'a', 'f' and 'd' will produce 'b' and 'f' and 'j' will produce 'c' and like. The combination of keys 
should be pressed and released together.

What is new in Sharada braille writer 2.0.
1 - Now using Python3 with gtk3,
2 - Auto new line,
3 - Layout independent,
4 - work with different distribution of Linux,
5 - Easy to add new language,
6 - List switcher using Alt,
7 - separate abbreviation and punctuation list for each language,
8 - Common text manipulation keys activated,
9 - Simple Mode,
10 - Python espeak no longer required,
11 - Version independent,
12 - Open with SBW enabled,
13 - Delete event cancel problem solved,
14 - Options moved to main window,
15 - No garbage printing and no longer hang.

Features
	
Languages : - This version comes with six languages English, Malayalam, Hindi, Kannada, Tamil, and Spanish.
English is the default language, and one can switch to other languages by pressing f2 for Hindi, f3 for Kannada,
f4 for malayalam, f5 for Spanish and f6 Tamil. One can go back too English using f1 key. One can select the
language by using language menu as well. 

Orca support : - Sbw is fully orca supported and one can use the orca preferences for changing voices, punctuation levels 
to be pronounced, key echo  by character etc. In order to activate orca preferences for sbw one should 
press insert+control+space together after opening the program. After the installation of the program, 
we recommend you to open the orca preferences for sbw and check the echo by character and uncheck the 
key echo to get a better speech support. To get speech support for Kannada and Tamil one should change 
the language to that language using the orca preferences for sbw.

Contractions : - All the grade 2 and grade 3 contractions in English and Malayalam is available in sbw. 
In order to activate contractions one should uncheck the simple mode.To produce contraction, press the combination of
letters after pressing the contraction key, Dot 5, 5-6, 4-5-6, 4, 3, 3-6, 6, 3, 1-5-6 are the contraction signs.
For example, press f and d together after pressing 'j' will produce word "better" and like. Along with these contractions,
we have provided some contractions in the simple mode itself. For this purpose we have used the combinations which
are not used for alphabets. Contraction guide is provided in the end.


Abbreviations : - One major feature of sbw is the facility to add new abbreviations. In order to add the abbreviation
1 - press alt+shift+o or go to the abbreviation menu in the menu-bar and open.
2 - type the abbreviated word and then press space twice and then type the word or words to be expanded.
3 - press alt+shift+s to save the combination.
Alt+shift+r will  delete all newly added abbreviations and restore the list to the default position.
We have already provided all the grade 3 abbreviations in the package. letter 'a' is the abbreviation 
key and one should press 'a'  after typing the abbreviation. list of default abbreviations are given 
at the end.

Numerals : - By pressing f7 key one can select numeral mode. Nemeth code approach is accepted here. In this mode, 
d, s, k, l representing 2, 3, 5, 6 of the braille dots are used for numbers that is d for 1 and d, 
s together for 2 etc. Other letters are written as in braille mode.f, k, l combination is used to produce 
underscore an this combination can be used  to produce line in any text. Numeral mode is used for handling 
mathematics.


Punctuations : - To produce any punctuation one should press semicolon in the ordinary keyboard and then press necessary 
combinations. In order to meet certain situations we have made some changes in the list. 
Please not that we have selected some combinations which are different from conventional braille.
d , coma, 
ds ; semicolon, 
dk : colon, 
dkl . fulstop, 
dl " double quote, 
sk ' apostrophe or single-quote, 
fl - hyphen, 
fds ( left-paren, 
jkl ) right-paren, 
dsk ! exclamation-mark, 
dsl ? question-mark, 
fdsj % percent, 
fsk < less-than, 
djl > greater-than,
fdl [ left-bracket, 
sjk ] right-bracket, 
fsj { left-brace, 
fjl } right-brace, 
dsjk @
fdsjkl = equals, 
kl ° degrees, 
s . dot, 
fsl _ underline, 
fdjl $
fdsk ^
djkl √
fdjkl Rupees Sign
press these key combinations after pressing semicolon in the key-board.	


Beginning list and middle list : - Left alt and right alt are used to switch bitween beginning list and middle list. 
This will help the user to write any letter anywhere. for example  one can write a vowel in hindi inside a word. 
To write a full vowel instead of a sign, one should press left alt and then type the combination needed for the vowel.

Fond and fond size : - Now we can change the fond and size of the text. To change the fond and size, press tab once and 
enter in the fond menu. Here one can select fond by using down arrow and change size by selecting size using tab key. 
again go to select button using tab and enter. To continue writing, tab again to text.

Fond and background colour : - Now one can change the colour of the fond and background.
use the tab key to select the colour as in the case of fond.

Spell checker : - Sbw has a spell checker and at present it will support English.

Audio converter : - audio converter in the tools menu will help one to convert text in to wave format and then can 
be used in other mobile devices to listen to.

Simple-Mode : - sbw is installed as the simple mode checked. This is done to avoid complications for a beginner. 
An advanced user can uncheck the simple mode using the tab key and can use contractions and abbreviations.

Auto-New-Line : - One can select line limit using the tab key.After selecting the number of characters needed on a line, 
orca will announce the fact when one cross the limit. Anyhow the program is installed auto new line as default. 
In this mode the program itself will select the new line when one cross the limit and press the space.


Navigation : - Ctrl+home,ctrl+end will help to move to the top and end of the file. Arrow keys will help to navigate
through text line by line and letter by letter. Ctrl+right arrow will help to navigate between words.
control+i will help to go to a line.


Text Manipulation : - Letter 'g' is used to produce capital letter in English and chillu in malayalam. 
press letter 'g' before typing the braille combination to make a letter capital and press 'g' after typing 
the braille combination to make a letter chillu in malayalam. If 'g' is pressed before using a contracted 
word, whole letters will be in capital. Letter 'h' will delete the last letter typed and 'g' and 'h' pressed together 
will delete the last word. Backspace and delete button also will function to delete the selected area. 
control+shift+right arrow will select the word and Ctrl+c will copy the file.


Copyright (c) 2011-2013 LIOS Development Team 

    All rights reserved . Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

    Redistributions of source code must retain the below copyright notice, 

    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

    Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the below copyright notice, 

    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 

    Neither the name of the nor the Lios team names of its 

    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. 

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE." 

FREE SOFTWARE FREE SOCIETY


